---
layout: post
title: "The Ultimate Collection of Emacs Resources"
date: 2011-11-30 20:56
comments: true
categories:
- Emacs
---

## Prelude

Anyone who's ever dabble in the dark art that is Emacs knows that
chances are you'll be overwhelmed before you start making sense of
Emacs' unique view of the world.

There are many great Emacs resources out there targeting different
groups of Emacs users. The problems is the often the people that would
benefit the most from some of those resources don't even know about
their existence. That's why I'm writing this article - to collect the
best resources in a single location and categorize them
accordingly. Surely I'll miss a lot of stuff - I'm just one man and I
certainly don't know about many great repositories of Emacs wisdom. I
hope you'll help me by pointing out such repositories in the comments
section. So here we go...

## Emacs Squares (Beginners)

#### The Emacs Tutorial

Built into Emacs itself this should be the first thing you ever read
about Emacs. The tutorial is interactive (you get to play with
concepts after you read about them) and you start it at any point by
pressing `C-h t`. 

#### Mastering Emacs

[Mastering Emacs](http://www.masteringemacs.org) is a relatively new
web site dedicated to teaching Emacs to beginners. It has some really
nice articles to get you started and a nice [reading guide]() to go
alongside them.

#### Meet Emacs

[Meet Emacs](http://peepcode.com/products/meet-emacs) is a great
introductory Emacs screencast by [PeepCode](http://peepcode.com). It's
not free, but if you prefer screencasts over reading manuals you
should definitely have a look at it.

#### Learning Emacs

[Learning GNU Emacs](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596006488.do)
is the last book that was ever published about Emacs. It's a bit dated
now (last edition is from 2004), but Emacs doesn't change that fast
and you'll still find a lot of relevant info into the book. This was
the second resource I've read about Emacs (after the built-in
tutorial) and while I didn't find the book outstanding I did find it
very helpful.

#### Emacs Rookie

[Emacs Rookie](http://emacsrookie.com/) is a web site dedicated to
Emacs tips (mostly about beginners). There are only a few articles
there right now, but hopefully their number will grow substantially
over time.

#### Emacs Rocks

[Emacs Rocks]() is a series of short Emacs screencasts. While some of
the things suggested there make me grit my teeth there are also quite
a bit valuable suggestions that you'll find there.

#### Emacs Prelude

[Emacs Prelude](https://github.com/bbatsov/emacs-prelude) is a custom Emacs 24 configuration developed by me
and optimized for your joy and productivity. It's a good starting
point for anyone looking to get started with Emacs without too much
initial research and ceremony. I'm always looking for ideas on
extending and improving Prelude.

#### Emacs Starter Kit

[Emacs Starter Kit](https://github.com/technomancy/emacs-starter-kit)
is a custom Emacs configuration similar to Prelude. The stable version
targets Emacs 23 and ESK targets Emacs 24 and makes heavy use of the
new Emacs Lisp Package Manager (ELPA) introduced there.

#### On Twitter

There are a few Twitter accounts dedicated on Emacs. I recommend you
to follow [@emacs_knight]()(operated by yours truly), [@learnemacs],
[@emacsrocks], [@dotemacs] and [@dotemax].

## Emacs Knights

#### Effective Emacs

[Effective Emacs](https://sites.google.com/site/steveyegge2/effective-emacs)
is a popular post by Steve Yegge in which he discusses a few
techniques to make more effective use of Emacs. I don't fully endorse
them, but still there a few great tips in there.

#### A Gentle Introduction to CEDET

If you're doing any C/C++ programming you owe it to yourself to read
Alex Ott's excellent article
[A Gentle Introduction to CEDET](http://alexott.net/en/writings/emacs-devenv/EmacsCedet.html).

#### Emacs Wiki

[The Emacs Wiki](http://emacswiki.org) is the one stop to find answers
about all topics related to Emacs. The Wiki, however, is poorly
moderated and in a state of total chaos and disarray. This makes it a
bit hard to sift through all the crap there and extract only the
really valuable bits of information. The amount of wisdom collected on
the wiki is impressive never-the-less and every experienced Emacs
user should browse it numerous categories for tips and tricks.

#### The Emacs Manual

The official Emacs Manual is one of the greatest Emacs resources ever
written, but only a handful Emacs users seems to have read it. It's
built-in Emacs itself and you can start perusing it simply by typing
`C-h r`. While it's a hefty volume, the Emacs Manual has one serious
advantage over the competition - it's always up-to-date.

#### The Emacs Lisp Reference

If you're serious about extending Emacs - this is the book to read. 

## Emacs Masters

#### Understanding SLIME

[Understanding SLIME](http://bc.tech.coop/blog/081209.html) is an
excellent overview of SLIME, featuring a myriad of links to great
SLIME resources. You should see the SLIME video tutorial even if you
don't read anything else from the article.

#### Practical Common Lisp

Common Lisp? We're talking about Emacs, right? Strange or not I found
more about Emacs Lisp, while studying [Practical Common Lisp](), than
the bundled Emacs Lisp manuals. There is also the `cl` module is Emacs
that implements a good deal of Common Lisp in Emacs Lisp and I use it
all the time. I, personally, dream of an Emacs using Common Lisp (or
at least Scheme) instead of Emacs Lisp, but doubt I'll live to see
such beast.

## Epilogue

The road to Emacs mastery is a long and tiresome one. But it's also
one of the most enjoyable roads one may choose to travel. Hopefully
you'll enjoy it even more armed with the many resources I've listed
here.

In the beginning I said I'm certainly going to miss many great bits of
Emacs wisdom. I'd like to ask you to mention them in the comments
section so that I could add them to the article.
